Awesome. Alright, well. I think we have a quorum. We're at 42 and we are recording.
Okay.
So, Lilianna, are there any logistics or important questions to address with the squad before we kick off our programming for today.
I'm not today. We got through pretty much all of the announcements yesterday, but as always, if there's anything, please reach out to our team.
Cool. Alright, great. So,
Okay.
This is like, this is one of my favorite, times. During program where I get to lean in pretty hard and like kick things off with hopefully things that are helpful and given some of the comments that you all said yesterday about looking forward to jobs to be done.
Here we are. It's game on. This is kind of my tried and true. Value add.
So with that, before I begin with like the goal of today is to essentially make sure that we're all in the same page with what it even is.
You all have already been through the paces of applying this framework actively on your companies. So I don't want to reinvent the wheel and I don't want to bore you.
That being said, I think there's a few stories and perspectives about the origin of this framework and how it came to be that I'm connected to and familiar with that.
By and large, we found beneficial to share. So, there's a couple of things that we prepared.
One we'll be sharing afterwards, which is a few testimonials from some of our alumni who've found a lot of success in applying the framework.
I think there's one video we might play for you all live. So you can kind of see and hear from at least one of them.
One of the shorter ones, Leon, because a few I think were a little long and then, but before even that, I wanted to open up the floor, to see if, long.
And then, but before even that, I wanted to open up the floor, to see if anybody had.
Comments or questions. About jobs to be done. Anything that you wanted to clarify, anything that you want to know.
I'm pretty good at operating on the fly, meaning I have. Hundreds and hundreds of like anecdotes examples slides.
References, links. So with all of those things, I can kind of customize what I share with you all today and over the next couple of days.
To make sure it meets your needs for what exactly you all need support on with respect to demand side sales.
So given all of that, questions, comments about the framework, how it's worked for you so far, what you're looking forward to learning.
Vincent.
I'd love to know about how this framework applies to what I've recently heard described as founder-led sales.
Yes, so when you say founder led sales, what's your understanding of what that term means?
Top salesperson. Yep.
So my understanding is pretty much what it sounds like. You basically, at you, when you reach Scale, you have a dedicated sales team, but before you have that, the best thing you can do is have your CEO step up and all into exactly talking direct.
That's where it's understanding what their needs are. The YC, for my co-founder is build so many people want, but I don't know what the, is yet.
Yes. Well, so here's the thing build something people want, but how do you know what people want?
Yeah.
And I think when you said the YC way, which I have a lot of respect for, by the way, like we're actually supporters of YC in the sense that like spiritually like Let's go.
Let's all win. That's all make founder successful. The contrast that I provide from my perspective in program and I don't know if this is unique to tech stars or just me.
Is a lot of the times when you bring on very young, low cost individuals who are executing on a vision to build a startup.
They can afford to iterate and screw things up time and time and time again and there's no real downside.
For those of you that are further along that have higher stakes, it may be more obligations, maybe there's a certain timetable that you need to make progress with your business and with the funds that you have.
It's really valuable. To do the work to get. Better shots on goal. So rather than kind of a scattered approach of let's iterate, let's build, let's iterate, let's build, let's see what works.
There is actual work that you can do. To have a lot more certainty that the bet you make is more likely to actually tap into true demand.
I intuited this as a founder in my earlier years when I was young and I started a couple of tech companies when I was a teenager and in college.
But then over time, I realized from a lot of really smart people who I'm gonna share some stories about today.
That there are more, formulaic and framing oriented ways to go about understanding your customer and what they would be willing to pay you for.
Yeah, it's good.
Does that help Vincent? Okay, good. Brian.
Greetings everyone. I'm just curious. Especially in a Quote, like on context, like the framework, I'm a very big fan of the framework, but I'm also contextualizing it.
What happens it's in situations whereby the culture has a very big intention deduction cup you know so having a conversation with them in the interview and normally they're communicating their intentions but what they actually do is far removed from what they actually do.
What they do as far move from what they do. Help me understand what you mean by that.
You know, you know, I say we're going to the, so what they do is, state.
Ryan, I think you're sound cut out.
Yeah. You're mic cut.
You have no idea what happened. But now we can hear you. Yeah.
But what they actually end up That's awesome. Oh, sorry. Oh, great.
Yeah, so it's basically saying what happens in communities where there's a high invention and actual gap, you know.
So basically when you have an interview with them, they're giving you their intentions. However, what they actually do is a little bit different.
Good question. That's a great question. I love that. That's an excellent question.
Thank you.
Alright, so I promise to address that and if I don't. You remind me at the end of this talk, but I will 100% address that question because that is Be secret.
That is exactly what we're up to here. Which is like most people have customer interviews and I'll meet with founders right for deals and investments and whatever the 4 VCs I've worked at and so many of them go, well, we've done hundreds of customer interviews.
And I'm like, so what? What does that mean? What did we actually learn? What questions did you ask?
What insights did you gain? So it's not about volume. First it's about quality reps and actually extracting the information insights you need and the short answer in spoiler alert, Brian is.
It's not what they are saying. It is at first. You have to unpack the layers.
That's what I've learned time and time again. So I'll get into the rest.
Ally, Ally? Is that how I say it? Oh, sorry, Lilian.
That's really quick. That's huge. What Neil saying is huge because we have people that come in, not any of you, but we have people that come in, not any of you, but we have people for years that have people that come in, not any of you, but we have people for years that have applied to Techstars and told us when we give them the jobs to be done exercise that you all
I already know. Yeah.
did. They say, I don't need to do these 5 to 8 interviews. Yeah, here and they'll submit to us like here are 100 interviews I've done.
The quality is not there. So we still ask them to redo it and do it in this way because those 1012 interviews that you do in a jobs to be done session or round are worth so much more than any of those.
So it's kind of like a challenge to take away those preconceived notions that many of us have, especially if you're data driven.
And I'll get more into that in the lecture.
Yeah, and I guess so to reaffirm that point too. I love this conversation, by the way.
So thank you all for. Raising your hand, asking questions and getting things started. It makes it easier to get into the content side.
Once we get through this conversation. So, but the other thing that, you know, tends to come up a lot is, There's nothing special about this.
Like we have packaging and labels for what we're teaching you, but this is accessible information, meaning a lot of people, you can read this online, you can find this stuff anywhere for the most part, but it's about applying it in a particular context and for your specific situation.
That makes the value unique that we offer, to understanding this. Oh, Ally. Did I say that right?
Yeah, thank you. It goes along the same line. So my question was regarding, we are pre product so our product is not out there, is not accessible to, users.
And so doing the jobs to be done interviews, we had to focus on, you know, how people were using alternative products and sometimes alternative pros have absolutely nothing to do with us and maybe they are not even related to technology.
So it was a little bit about like what's the best approach in those situations because you know, you're trying to go through the layers like you said and understand, you know, what draw they are decision and what they are really pursuing and then try to match that to our value prop.
But my question was, you know, in those situations where you cannot really ask them about how they've been using your products.
They are in some cases they're telling you what they hypothesize is what they would do and that has you know just the limited value I guess so are there any other tools that we can use to complement jobs to be done or any specific approach that we need to take with the jobs to be done in interview in those cases.
Yeah, yeah, I would say there is a specific approach and we'll talk to you more about that one on one too as we do sessions with each company.
But the short answer is that when you're pre-product, One of the other techniques that you can utilize before you have customers actively using your platform to gain insights in the JTVD like fashion is by interviewing competing hires.
So whether that's a direct or indirect competitor, we can help you identify very thoughtful experiments to understand.
Someone hiring a different solution for the same job that you're trying to address. And then by going deeper to understand why they're spending money to make progress with those other tools or solutions.
It will provide a lot of key insights about. What uniqueness you can bring to your product development process.
Thank you.
To address that. We got you. All right, snow.
Alright. So I really enjoyed the jobs to be done interview, during the, the application process and It helped us a lot.
Surprisingly, after the after the accepted, we started charging our plug and we even have the plain customers but it was getting harder for me to hold the schedule so I mean I even reached out reached out to the the pain customers they don't yeah except the interview request.
The answer to what would happen with the interview?
So I, it's, That's a they They didn't, didn't participate in an interview.
Oh. Yeah.
Understood.
Yeah.
There's a few things there and there's a few layers of severity to address, right?
Even they are paying for our product, but it's getting harder for me to get the interview. So it's a little bit outside of the topic, but I wonder how I can get them better, interviewees and that's how I get often interview.
So on one hand, one way that I've always had success getting people to interview with me. Is by flattering.
You're saying, hey, thank you for being a user customer of our platform and product. And we want to find more people like you and to understand how to better serve you.
As a user and customer of our platform. So we want to have a conversation with you about what your needs are and how to find other great folks like yourself.
So there's a way to like frame that conversation, that invitation so that they're almost flatter to talk to you and they're willing to tell you more because they feel like they're making and they are a real difference on the direction of something that they've already signed up for.
So that's one. Another level of severity though is that you have a sensitive product, meaning like the context is more private.
They may not want to talk to you for a variety of reasons. Could be healthcare related. It could be finance related.
So when you have situations like that. Or even tech related like with your business, run bear.
So when you have situations like that, it's helpful to provide some kind of incentive. So sometimes you can offer, you know, deeper utilization of the product in some way.
Or a longer term commitment or, you know, very frankly cash. You know, Amazon gift cards are the bees knees to a lot of interviewees with respect to jobs to be done.
So there's a lot of ways to like ensure that you have people you can talk to. And then the last and final like crazy tier that I've helped more later stage founders with as of late is a turn.
Firing interviews. So the ones who leave, why do they leave? Do they want to talk to you?
How do you get them to talk to you? They're they're saying no to you. Do they need you anymore?
Do they even like you? Are they willing to have that conversation? So that's the ultimate tier of understanding like, all right, once they commit and they leave.
How do we actually get them to talk to us? So a lot of ways to go about all of that snow, but those are excellent questions and I love that you appreciated the framework.
Alright, Jeremy.
Thank you. Yeah.
Yeah, no, absolutely. I actually enjoyed how conducting the jobs to be done. Interviews allowed us to really ask those quick the 5 wise like really getting to the core of was driving this customer's decisions.
We learned things that we didn't expect. A lot of our assumptions were, challenged.
Because we got insights into their lifestyles and into their true pains that they may have had and also, there was a time where we were able to steal down these, this research into these clear, distinct job statements.
That really framed up who our customer was. And what they were trying to accomplish with various
There's much more than meets the eye, isn't there?
Absolutely.
Yeah, love that. Antonio.
Alright, yeah, so like I said, we are pre product and We really enjoy like I said, that homework.
I think we learned a lot from those interviews I especially you know the journey and the diagram that to fill out it really forced us to understand the psychology.
The customer in the Jordan they go through to to get to to the product. And I'm curious by the way to learn more about unpacking all these layers that you're talking about.
One question I have is, And maybe we'll learn it throughout the program. If if there is a additional commitment that we can expect from the customers.
You know, before the final committee would be, would be You know, big, you know, give us their credit card to buy our products.
I wonder between the interview and, and get to that point if there is additional commitment that we can expect from the customer.
So from these test customers to to see their their willingness to to buy our product and get more certainty towards launch.
So I'm, I'm, I'm smirking because like one, it just feels good to be back in the field.
Like back doing the work and like working on jobs with a new class of companies and new problems. So just hear you ask that question just gets me excited to jam.
My answer to you is A cautionary one. So here's a mistake that lots of founders make at the beginning of our tech search journey.
They start doing these interviews and some of you have probably already done this over the application process. And they get excited about the people that they're talking to because they can tell.
That there's room to either upsell. Or to convert into a customer if they aren't already.
I will caution you in that we do not want to. Disrupt the discovery work that we're doing on the demand side with the supply side thinking and desire for progress from a sales standpoint.
So it'll be a really sensitive like bifurcation of your energy to have these interviews and do these conversations in a way that doesn't get distracted by the progress you can make on your business and for the customer with what you have to offer.
That comes later or at the end of the conversation. So, the answer. Though to your question is yes, of course there are ways to enhance the offer in the deal and the interaction you have with them, but my My, my ask of you is to wait either to the end or in a follow-up.
After you have those conversations to make those additional. Offers to them. But yes, of course, it sweetens the deal because you understand them at a level that they never thought you could.
And once you get to that level of understanding and you know exactly what they need and you know that your product can actually deliver on that in a way that they had maybe either understood or you build a new feature to address the need that you discover in your conversation with them.
It's such a delightful moment. It leads to so much customer loyalty and support and it essentially turns your early stage customers into your Salesforce because they start to promote you and they start to refer other people to you.
So it's a really, really beautiful moment, but I would just caution you not to jump the gun on it.
Alright. Car squad. What's up?
Okay, so my question is, I wanna take a step back very quickly and rather than, entrusting the interview process itself.
Take a look at who you're entering in the first place. The thing for us is we've got 3 different types of users for a platform.
Yeah. Yeah.
With their own specific needs right and how do you pay prioritize who to interview would build for and your answer maybe okay we're just paying for the product but overstating the product might not have the most need out of front.
So I want to figure out how to organize that. Okay.
Yep. Yeah, so it depends, right? So I would say whoever's paying for the product if our number one goal right now is to get our first customers because we have their revenue need, attraction need, a fundraising parameter.
We have a deadline we need to make or whatever. That's not the case and if you have a little bit more time.
My Alternative answer to what to prioritize as far as who to interview because there's different segments, you're right.
Is more about who can teach us the most about the problem we want to solve.
So that is that is another way of framing. Like is it. User or customer of a competitive product.
It may not be one of our new customers or our current customers because we're planning to change our strategic direction.
We want to understand a new segment. Of demand. So there's all types of reasons for why you would interview certain subgroups of the people that you may want to serve as customers.
So that is again a unique. Process where there's a lot of nuance and that nuance tends to get lost when people Kind of blanketly apply this framework in a way that is not as thoughtful as that.
So I love that you asked the question, your spot on. There's no clear objective right answer for who you should interview but the more specific you get with your screening criteria and your why the learning questions that you have of what you actually are doing the interviews for.
In the first place, the learning questions that you have of what you actually are doing the interviews for in the first place, the more that will be informed properly.
So I'll help you all with that.
Yeah, that's what we said. Take care.
Good. Christy.
This is such a phenomenal work because, it kind of helps us like. Get deeper, empathize, with our customers and frankly, my co-founder Richelle, it's a much better person in doing this framework.
What I found just personally is it was a little bit embarrassing when they tell me what did they tell us.
That they bought our product. Based on the strength of my relationship with them. It was a little bit personal.
But over time, you know, we were able to kind of understand and get deeper to it. One thing that we would be helpful is do we have more examples or like in a B 2 B context?
Yeah
Because I know that you, that would help us hone, our, you know, skill in doing this because it's such a phenomenal tool.
I mean, it's I haven't seen anything like it and The way, we were able to unpack.
Why we're successful in developing this customer relationship. It's phenomenal. We wanna be able to do more of them.
Well, so you know, I will say one thing, Christy. You said you haven't seen anything like it and I'm we're flattered by that.
Hmm.
That being said, I think all of you have seen something like this. Whenever in your life you've reached a point where You have a deeper understanding or clarity of why you purchased.
Something or why someone you care about purchase something? You realize that there was like a deeper wide than the one that was on the surface?
Whenever you got to that insight and you realized like there was more going on than what I initially understood. That's you knowing what this is about.
We're just adding language and like kind of parameters and like inputs to understanding how to go about that in a more systemic way.
But you all intuitively as human beings know how to understand the deeper underlying motivations and drivers for people's decisions.
So, but to answer your other question with B 2 B, L, mentioned in the chat that we're putting together examples.
That was one piece of feedback we got last time actually for a last program because we had a class of founders that were primarily B.
Yeah.
So a lot of people initially think, oh, well. You know, and B 2 B, there's no individual. So you can't have interviews.
I'm like, yeah, there's a decision maker. They're human beings who have needs.
There's people who don't want to get fired, it's people who want to get promoted.
There's people who want to look like they're the savior for their company. There's new executives that step in at the sea level that want to show that they're the hero of the new era for their business and they want to hire new cooled early stage tech companies with, you know, cheap enterprise contracts and deals that show that they're being innovative.
Yeah.
Right? So like there's all types of situations where there's human interests involved even in the B 2 B context that we can teach you all how to get closer to an unpack.
So we'll give you all those examples and help you with that.
And. And just wanted to think, if there's any other coaching around. How we can do these interviews for our partners like our like our Almost like our sales channel partner.
Because maybe there's a little bit of nuance there too how we can make successful.
Okay. Sure, yeah, I love that. You're already thinking through how to help like your basically your partner succeed, the people who are leading to the progress for your customers.
So I love that and happy to help. All right, Dan.
Yeah, hi. I have a questions about, a practical implementation of this framework in, in regards to the McKinsey customer journey model.
So basically, what we did with this customer interview, we covered the, like part of the journey from like trigger to initial consideration set to, you know, active evaluation to the moment and purchase.
But is there any way to implement this framework when you try to research on that. Post purchase and experience and loyalty loop you know so can we use this framework to go further than just moment of purchase.
Yes, you can. You can use this framework to go beyond the moment of purchase because the And I'll cover this the core part.
That becomes important post purchase is customer success.
So are we actually doing the job that they hired us for? Are we getting it done? Are the new jobs they wanna hires for?
Are they gonna re hire us? So that I will if I don't address that Dan in what I'm going to share you let me know but that's something I plan to go much deeper on.
Thank you.
It's a sniper question. David.
Yeah, I'd love to, I guess, learn a bit more about. How we identify what should be the core foundation of our value prop versus additional features.
When it comes to talking to these people. And so we're pre product and still. Trying to hone in on what they were solving the right problem and as new problems come up.
A lot of them are kind of clustered in different areas in different spaces. We really wanna make sure we're solving like.
The core value prop, not necessarily building on additional features that may help a subset, but not necessarily everyone.
So, hoping to learn more about that.
Well, yes, one quick comment on the last thing you said.
We definitely don't want to help everyone right away. So you're still going to have to make trade-offs and focus on a subgroup to make disproportionately successful before you expand.
One of the trips that one of the things that trip up founders early on is like I know all you all want to serve millions of people.
I know you want to make millions of dollars. We all want that. But if we try to soon to spin a narrative that we have that figured out and we know who's gonna pay us all that money and who's gonna all those millions of people we're gonna come from, we're kind of fooling ourselves.
So it was like a little bit of a trip question for me to ask each of you how you become a billion dollar company before I made the, you know, the final offer to have you all join because it's like the short answer is we don't know.
You have a guess. You have a thought process for what you think will work and we'll help you with that.
But yeah, David, I got you on that. That's not a problem. That's an excellent question.
Wow, that was awesome. We just took 20 min and burned through a dozen questions and I'm couldn't be more like happy about it.
So, we have 2 quick founder stories that we want to share. We've never done this before.
So bear with us. Hopefully this is helpful for you all to hear from companies that literally just applied this framework and went through our program last.
And had real stories to share about what was beneficial and addressing skepticism going into it as well.
Is this a good use of my time? I'm here to fundraise. I just got into tech stars.
How do I spend 120 K properly? I'm trying to sell. Why do you want me to slow down and like talk to people instead?
So hopefully they address some of that. So Indy is the CEO of Perform View.
They have been so steadfast at iterating on their progress throughout our program experience. However, Their business scares me.
Indies approach to providing art. To directly compete with Netflix as they tend to say in their tagline on the website.
Is still something that remains to be seen to me as like we can succeed with that branding and strategy.
However, The amount of traction interest and fundraising progress that's already been made since demo day for Indy has been impressive.
Now, G and I are actively advising in D on, you know, price round versus for, node and all these other cool details.
So that all being said, here is a perspective from Indy and then we'll follow up with another founder.
And like, Ferno Sophie, and Nashi, can you put the performed view link in the chat.
And so people can see it. So we're giving a B to C example first and then we have a B 2 B.
But they filmed a video just for you. So let's see. Could you hear that?
I think the sound may not be shared.
Okay, let's try it.
You're gonna play them like 1.2.
Hey guys, Independent is here, founder and CEO of Perform View. Form view was just in tech stars last Oakland cohort so was in there with the team having a lot of fun really excited for everything that's ahead of you here but the team asked me to do a little bit of a summary on the value I found from the jobs to be done process.
I think to be transparent when I first went into it, I, as many of you may be sitting there thinking, I've done a lot of customer interviews before.
Why do I need to do more? Now in this entirely new format. I feel like I've got a grip on everything and I'm just trying to build and grow.
But I was encouraged to turn my focus into the process and it was ended up being such a valuable experience.
So for us the main learning outcome or learning objective was why do people sign up to our platform? So, it's like Netflix for video art essentially.
So why do people sign up? What are they doing about it and how can we use that insight, what are they doing about it and how can we use that insight, the learnings we got from that, the learnings we got from that, to then bring more people into the platform as customers.
It was a pretty awesome experience, I think. We only got a handful of interviews with focused on interviewing our actual customers and learning about backstory towards how they found us, what made them make that purchase, what was the emotion behind their engagement with our product.
And what we ended up finding is a lot more emotional reasons for the purchase itself. We had no idea towards it and we then took all of that insight and reflected on our landing page which is our main source of first or second step in the funnel alongside our social messaging, our social media strategy, and we completely redid it based on those insights based on the motive feedback we got from those customer interviews and as a result we actually after redesigning it
wasn't really a design change more so a messaging and language change. We saw our landing page to sign up page conversion rate go from 4% to 36% between November and December.
So that's like a 32% jump up and it's been sustained at that point ever since.
And I'm a hundred percent certain it's because we have a better understanding of what that mode of trigger in our customers when they go to that sign up page, sorry, that landing page is going to be.
So we're hitting it on the spot before they have to think for themselves and that's helping us make the sale.
So I think I'd really encourage everyone to just go into the JTV process with an open mind, try and work out what that pinpoint is and just be critical on yourself around how much am I actually interpreting facts versus using using emotional insights.
Behind the purchase to make my decisions on how I bring people in or how I structure my sales cool. So I have to answer any questions directly if anyone wants to reach out to me.
The team can link you up. But if not, good luck to you.
Great. And then we'll follow up right now, with Nala. Imena does work on the BDB side to help larger organizations.
I would like to think of as, work on the BDB side to help, larger organizations.
I would like to think companies like tech stars get better insights about how to, retain their talent and support their employees.
So let's get him in his
Yeah, I think. Yeah, give me 1 s.
This can.
But we can also pop in these,
Email in the chat.
Yeah, I think I think I'm gonna need you to share it. I can't get out of
Alright, I got you. I can get this done.
Here we go.
Please hold.
Chair.
Sure sound.
And I was just putting out 1.2 5.
Alright, let me know if this works.
Yep.
So hi everyone, this is Himena from Nala. I would say there are 3 things that like very specific that I got from doing jobs to be done.
The first thing was we were able to really identify the true value our customers had with Nella. And because of that, we actually increased our prices by 25%.
And every single company that's part of our desired target, they not only said yes but they renew for the whole, 2,024.
So we would have never been able to do that if we hadn't had absolute certainty that they just loved our product.
The second thing is that it helped us. Improve our marketing and sales effort. So as a startup, I'm the founder that's doing founder let's sell so anything from marketing like our website LinkedIn or the sales it's basically me.
So really understanding what to say in any marketing initiative. Like focusing on what are the struggling moments, what are the benefits that Nala provides for companies that use us.
And then focusing on the sales process in explaining how NADA works. Really tackling those. Potential frictions or fears or things that we know we needed our clients to feel safe in order for them to make progress.
And last but not least. I would say it also helped us to make decision in terms of a roadmap.
Because in our case we really discovered that what they truly truly value and what was unique about Nana was how we were getting actionable data in order for them to make decisions around talent management.
So it was not necessarily other things we thought they were looking that we needed to add in a roadmap because our competitors had.
It was this very specific thing that we were doing very well. That was what called their attention in the first place.
That's how they got the CFO to say yes to the budget that was required. And that was, and they were looking for that because that was going to help them with the pain they were going, like the struggling moment.
And then finally, like whenever I'm selling right now, and again, I own B 2 B enterprise, so it's a little different for B to C.
Whenever I have like a first like a discovery call, thanks to jobs to be done, I have a completely clear understanding on where in the progress journey they're in.
So I know what it is that I need to give them in order to help them make progress in their own state instead of me treating every single lead.
At the same time at the same piece, giving them exactly the same process. So it sounds like more work, but it's not.
It's made us more efficient and effective and provided a lot of clarity on different decisions we're making on a daily basis.
Alright, so you've heard from our founders. I'm ready to jam.
I'm ready to get into my, talk. But I will preface it with one final thing, which is you can interrupt.
You can drop questions if they're relevant to address in the moment I will otherwise. Do your best to drop them in so that we can go through and make sure we address them all.
I might go I would love to cover more ground so that we have more time to do real practice in the next couple sessions we have after this.
So if I can get through as much of this content as possible now, great, because then we can get real.
And I can demonstrate examples, do live interviews with you. I'll show you what that looks like and maybe even use some of you all in the room as test subjects for the techniques.
So that's always fun. Alright, so I'm gonna go ahead and jump in.
And Lilian, I think you wanted to say something about our credentials and teaching this framework.
Oh, just that it's really, I find it really helpful to understand that this is something that we also teach kind of at the same time as teaching at Techstars to undergraduates and business students at Northwestern.
So we kind of changed the lecture a little bit to be more clickable to you guys who are actively working on businesses and have been for some time.
But it's the same content. So if you can kind of put yourself in a student context for this, I think it makes it a lot easier to understand.
Almost like a class because Neil and I are you know, essentially teachers even though we work here at Text, and we're also investors.
That's it.
Great. Let's see. Said by screen sharing was paused.
Let me do this.
I'm gonna start that and then I'm going to
Yeah, just very small.
Let me fix it.
1 s.
One more try. Sorry about that.
When I do presentation, I needed to share the whole screen.
Is that working?
It's still the same size, but everyone can go to view options and make it bigger if you'd like.
In your own personal.
Weird. It says my screen sharing is pause and I'm not sure why.
I'm sorry about that.
It doesn't make a difference, does it? Hmm. Okay.
We can go with this small. Everyone who wants it bigger can.
I'll just do it like this. Can I do it like this? And is this okay? Okay, I'll I'll do it this way.
Yeah.
Alright, so go explain JTPD and dig deeper into why people buy. You get that.
Like I said, you can interrupt me. So I wanted to share a few quotes because you all are gonna go through inter Madness.
And as you know, with Minter Madness, you're gonna meet a lot of people who have a lot of perspectives on your business and a lot of founders tend to come out of that quite raw.
So here are the most consistent. Statements that we get from every mentor madness roundup of feedback that we receive.
You storytelling of current customers experiences to help sell the product. This is feedback to us about our founders.
Sorry, giving me stories about the customers. Don't chase your customers, understand your customers. Focus less on sales until you know your customers.
Stop building our technology, focus on the business. Something in the company is technology, start thinking about it as a problem you're solving to obsess with product.
Hit the brakes on tech dev. Sharpen the story. They screen jost to be done.
So it got to the point where people realize like what we're teaching and where the founders are at and what they need to do.
So, so you all know when I first started at Techstars. I wasn't teaching this framework as overtly as I am for you.
Right now, nor was I incorporating it into the application process. I was doing what I saw everyone else doing at tech stars and everywhere else.
I was interviewing the founders asking them tough questions, deciding if I like their business and if I like them and then investing.
Instead, I realized that the people who I helped the most Are the people who resonate? With this framework as being a way to better understand the people that you want to help.
If you think that you can build tech and just figure out who you're building it for. That can work.
I'm just not good at teaching you how to do that. I'm good at this. So.
There's a few examples of companies I like to highlight that have seen a disproportionate amount of success over the past 4 years.
And there's 2 kind of contrasting examples that I love sharing. One is real crafter. You may meet these cofounders at some point, but Sam and Sarah are co-founders of this company.
Sam was a composer himself for the video game nerds in the world. He was the composer for the original score of the game Mass Effect.
So that is one of the most epic sci-fi video game franchises of all time.
So I totally fanoid out as a gamer. But Sam's a really humble founder.
He's the first one of the first companies I ever invested in. And he's thriving with this business in a way that's a little different than what you would expect.
They came into my program at like, 4 K MRR. They have like a monthly product that, you know, a lot of musicians sign up to use.
They've over the past 4 years stumbled into like, I think, 35 K almost 40 K.
And we still are struggling to pinpoint how they've consistently grown their. Sales so slowly over time.
There, you know, they've had contacts from Spotify and they work with the, you know, Berkeley School of Music and other university partnerships and, you know, music company, tech companies that are exploring working with them, but they haven't quite decided to turn on the venture spigot quite yet.
And raise capital. So there in one end of the spectrum for me as an outcome. The other end.
Nutrients. So they were also in the first class. So, Liliana, Sophie and others on the call know them well.
They actually now come back and do workshops for us for our programs and help our founders so you'll meet the one or 2 of the co founders of this company at some point.
Let me tell you a little bit about them. So nutrients came into tech stars pretty much almost prerevenue.
Almost pre product and they provide continuous glucose monitors to help people better understand their blood glucose and health when it comes to all of their daily and bodily activities.
I think by the end of program. They reached like, 20 K MRR.
And confidentially, I know this is being recorded, but please keep it in the family. I think they're their monthly recurring revenue right now is around, is it like 3 million?
It's 4 million.
It's 4. Yeah, 4. So they make like 4 million a month. Right now.
Yeah.
And, they just raised their They raise their Series A and I think they'll be raising their series B. They're doing quite well.
It's one of the shining examples I have of a company that I've seen final on a success.
We didn't have as much to do it as you would think. When they were in program, they were so focused on sales.
It was hard to get them to focus on a lot of the things that we're talking about here.
But They ended up realizing the benefit of this jobs to be done framework post program. And ended up hiring.
Some of the experts I'm going to introduce you to like the gentleman who did the mattress interview, Bob Mesta.
To actually actively work on them, you know, on a consulting project for their company to help them figure out the demand side.
When they plateaued. With their sales and hit ceilings and walls with respect to growth. But they kept going and now they come back and talk about both that and how they fundraise and how they do a bunch of other cool stuff.
So all that being said, couple of great examples of founders that I've directly invested in who I know well and personally who we taught this framework to have found success.
So, that's the why. And lastly here, don't fret if when I speed up right now with the story I will tell and the framework I introduce you all to again.
We have this templated out very, very thoughtfully step by step. So you will be able to follow what we're gonna cover quickly here.
It whatever pace you see fit. Once we we finished going through it. So we have all of those recipes and formulas built out for you.
To know exactly what steps to take to do this properly. This list that you're looking at.
I don't believe exists online. Like I don't think you can Google to find, you know, this like these steps in this way.
So I'm glad it exists and I'm looking forward to one day maybe making something a little bit more publicly available.
I'm in talks with Bob Mester for example and writing a book about how to apply jobs to be done more directly to startups.
So we'll see how that goes. Alright, now let's get to the fun part. Actually doing the work.
So defining the problem, this is the question I get a lot as as an investor. And I interrupt people because they always try to tell me about their solution.
And I stop them and I say, hey, tell me a story that exemplifies the problem yourself because you're talking to me about what features your business has and that's irrelevant.
Before I actually know who were who were here to help. So whether you're seeking investors. New customers trying to figure out what to build.
And your product next. Understanding the progress of your users and customers and what their desired outcomes are is the most important thing.
So we could all nod our heads and all agree because this is all like easy things to say. But the more time has gone on, the more true these words have become for me.
And I hope that becomes the same for you. So the basic premise of jobs to be done, which you all know, is people don't buy products or services.
They hire them to help them make progress in their life. So the age old analogy. The one that came from when this framework first came about in the early nineties.
Is that people don't want to buy a quarter and what do they want?
Feel free to unmute. Speak up.
They want a whole
Okay.
Yeah. Yeah.
I want the whole! Yeah, but now Jeremy, let's keep it going. Stay off mute.
What did they want the whole for?
Good question.
They want to hang a photo.
Yeah, that's exactly right. So I wanted to hang a photo because I was a totally strange human being and decided to teach myself programming and software engineering and computer science.
After graduating. And when I did that, I went mad and put like hundreds of posters all over my house.
To motivate me to do the one of the hardest things. So I had these motivational posters on the wall with my drill in my hole.
But why do you think I put those motivational posters up?
Perhaps reminder to yourself, right? Or your commitment?
Yeah, yeah, I was trying to be focused. I was trying to get Shit done. Now that being said, y'all.
At some point you have to call it. Because if you ask why too many times. You get to an existential crisis and you start questioning the nature of the universe. Why am I here?
What is the point of anything? Does anything matter? The sun is going to explode. I understand.
So I say all that to say the quarter and drill to the quarter inch hole. The quarter intoll to hang a picture.
The picture to be motivated to learn programming. The list goes on and on. But there are layers to understanding the depth of someone's underlying motivation.
So with that being said, has anyone ever heard of the 5 why's this is like a standard like business?
Kind of tool? 5 W. If you ask why once. You'll learn something, but you won't learn what's really going on.
If you ask why 5 times, you'll get a lot closer to the truth. Why is actually a far less effective question in the context of jobs?
Then when. And I'll tell you more about why later. But just keep that in mind. So progress is someone's trying to make.
There's someone, they are in a place. There's this is one of your customers. Whether they're B to B or B to C, they're one of your customers.
And they're trying to get somewhere that they're not. And that's why they would spend money to hire you to help them.
So how do we make sense of that? Well, struggling moment that they're facing and a desire to be somewhere that they're not.
They're trying to figure out in that circumstance. What progress they need to make to do so. And we have to humble ourselves as founders that have products and solutions.
And remind ourselves that we are very simply trying to help them get across as a bridge. So a job.
Is just understanding the why, the causality underneath that explains the choice as someone needs to make to make that progress.
And you're gonna hear me say progress. Probably too much. Like you're gonna get tired of hearing Neil say progress.
What progress are we trying to make when we start a meeting? What does progress look like here? What does success look like here?
You'll decide if, if you vibe with that language or not, but I just, I can't stop using those words because of the depth of their meaning for us.
So that bridge, that capability, that's you. That's your entire business. So hopefully this is a very humbling moment for all of us.
We aren't the greatest thing in the most important things in the world. We have to make sure our customers feel like.
They have the most important thing in the world to us and how we are going to serve. So just remember that we are the bridge to the customers progress.
And to the extent that we can embody that and how we operate. You will develop a lot of customer loyalty and better understanding of how to serve.
So the circumstance language is deliberate as well. So. A job can only be defined and a new solution developer devised.
Relative to the specific context in which it arises. So this is a bunch of fancy way, like language around.
Saying that you start off building things for a very bespoke, unique group of people. And over time, you will iterate and learn what becomes.
Mass appealing. But in the beginning and the early stages for most, if not all of you. You're not at a stage now where you're trying to figure out mass appeal.
So we shouldn't be spending our tech stars money on running ad campaigns until we have it dialed in and we actually know how to properly spend money.
To acquire the customers that we truly want to search. Many of you are likely getting ahead of yourselves right now with how you're spending your dollars.
To have other people sell on your behalf or other tools and systems selling your behalf without having a better grasp of who you should be selling to in the first place.
So, symptoms, problems and causes. So a lot of folks tend to react. To the symptoms of a customer's problem.
Without understanding the underlying root causes and this framework is meant to help you understand that. So you all watch this video, correct?
The milkshake video with Clay? Yes, I'm seeing all the head nods.
Love that. One of the most fascinating things about that fast food chain he was talking about with the milkshakes.
Does anybody know? What franchise he was doing business with to help invent this framework in that story.
Anybody want to guess?
Was it Chick-fil-A?
Yeah, we got it in the chat.
Sorry for Valeria, would you say?
I was gonna say, wasn't Chick-fil-A or McDonalds?
There's McDonald's.
It was McDonald's. Those McDonald's. So half of all milkshakes are being purchased before 8 o'clock in the morning.
And they didn't know why. That blew my mind when I first saw this video. And the fact that And there it's 4 min long or 5 min long.
Be the nuance in how Professor Christensen talks about their approach is so dense. I'm telling you, if you go back and watch it.
He'll say things like, in language that they could understand. We asked. Or we would go and confront these people and the drive through and talk to them.
So he kind of casually tells a story about how he spoke to people about why they were buying milkshakes and figured it out.
The level of. Of. Expertise required to be such an effective interviewer where you do a few dozen interviews at a McDonald's and you're able to unpack something that the company itself couldn't figure out what the data that they had access to.
That was so impressive to me. And it was an early hint that I was. Onto something by wanting to learn more about how to go about understanding customers more effectively with this technique.
So you all may know Clay. Not from jobs to be done. But from coining the term.
Disruptive. So whenever people talk about disrupt. And how it's like cliche or, you know, the Silicon Valley thing or we're disrupting this or you're being disruptive.
He literally coined the term in the business context by writing this book called The Innovators to Lim.
I believe it was in the eighties when you first started writing it and maybe it came out in the ninetys, eighties, something like that.
But it's a classic business book. And I couldn't recommend it more for the true.
Deep old school business nerds in the room. So for any of you that really want to understand like the origins of like the emergence of technical innovation in America, especially in the eightys and ninetys.
There are so many great case studies here where he talks about how competing startups would go head on with IBM and other, there's so many great case studies here where he talks about how competing startups would go head on with IBM and other, you know and the different forms of innovation that exist.
So when people say they're being innovative, I usually go, what do you mean? What does that actually mean?
Because do you understand the concept of innovation and how it's applied and then what the contexts are because disruptive innovation is different than market-creating innovation, which is different than sustainable innovations.
And there's different phases to understand that as you grow your business. I would encourage you all to learn more about.
So the other book though that Lilyanna loves, I know because she was a student in my class and now she teaches it with me.
But I don't have people read this book anymore because it's Usually 2 dents and there's there's too much to unpack for a lot of folks and there's a lot of academic rigor associated with it.
But the books call competing against luck. It's named that for a very, very important and deliberate reason.
But the notion here is that a lot of the times many of you all with your businesses so far likely shrugged your shoulders at 1 point and you didn't know why.
A customer behaved a certain way. Or you use your intuition to figure out what to build or who your customer was.
Or you made an inference from a conversation you had with the customer about what they meant.
If you were right in making any of those assumptions, a lot of the times many of us would attribute that.
To this thing we call luck. So the labeling of this book is really about like No, there's a way to actually know.
You don't just have to be lucky with your insights and with your realizations about how this works.
We can teach you and go about a way. To literally create opportunities for those insights to happen. So, Lilian, if you want to say anything more about this book.
Yeah, it's true that we don't have the undergrads read it anymore, but there's one exception, which is our MBA students at Kellogg.
Oh yeah, Kellogg, yeah.
So if you yourself feel that you are very much interested in case studies kind of a more traditional academic way of understanding jobs to be done.
There are a lot of enterprise. Examples here, so a lot of people who are B to B really benefit, but even if you're not, if that's how your brain works and you would benefit from that, I highly, highly recommend purchasing it because it goes along with everything that we're talking about here.
But in a much broader, like scheme. The way that Neil and I teach it is very unique.
In that we are applying it to startups. So a lot of people don't know this because it is widely applied to startups now, but it just started out as an enterprise.
Consultant solution. This is a very new. Maybe like one decade old venture into applying jobs to be done into startups and Neil has been at the head of that along with Bob Best of who he's going to talk about.
Who served your friend?
And this is a great moment to check in really quickly and say something that. I think needs to be said.
One of my colleagues, Matt Kosov, managing director in LA. He and I talk a lot.
I look up to him. Managing director in LA. He and I talk a lot. I look up to him.
I've learned a lot from him as an MD. He starts off his program by telling his founders.
Techstars isn't school. We're here to do business and build businesses and get things done.
I'm not here to lecture at you and have you do homework and things like that. And Tony, I've heard you refer to this work as homework.
I know a lot of people refer to it as homework. I want you all to know. This if you see it as homework.
All of, however, what you should see this as. As a better way to understand the people who are going to be funding your future progress as your customers.
And if you don't see that value and this feels more like you're in school. I apologize for that.
Let me know ways that I can reframe it. But what we do in the university context is fundamentally different than what we're doing at Texas.
I'm telling you. Like it's different to sit in a classroom, learn this stuff and think theoretically about how to apply it.
It's a completely different piece to learn a literal framework, apply it and make more money because of it.
And increase your prices and see that reflected your financial model and actually raise venture capital because of these new insights that you have.
That's real. And that's what those are the results that we expect and can facilitate here.
So I'll say that to say. I'm playing to my strengths and that I do know how to teach certain things in ways that allow founders to have new skills.
I'm not only going to help you grow your business, but I'm also going to empower you all with very powerful tools and frameworks that will help you all scale your businesses over time.
So that's my view on programming and content in a tech stars context. But I just thought you all should hear that from me.
Cool. Alright, so now we're getting to I think we're Dan was asking me about where what happens?
After the purchase. So you all earn this timeline, you all filled this out, but how well do we understand it?
So strangely enough, most of the time people are doing their customer interviews around this phase right here. The buying and the deciding.
This is where most people when they do customer interviews are getting insights. We're here to tell you that there's so many other things that happen leading up to that moment.
That you didn't initially imagine. And I know you all know this because you listen to the mattress interview at least once if not multiple times.
So beyond the mattress interview, there's plenty of B 2 B examples as well of the same journey of those struggling moments where there's going to be a multitude of events that go from a first thought to active from passive to active looking and then fully making a decision and going back through this cycle over and over again.
So we'll help each of you all model this out for your respective businesses. Also, the forces diagram.
So between the timeline and this forces, these are your 2 main tools. If there's only 2 things that you all take away.
From all this talking at you that I'm doing right now. It's these 2 slides. It's the timeline and the forces.
Everything stems from these 2 resources with respect to what we're trying to help you understand. So if we understand progress over time, when I'm doing a job to be done in interview.
I have this timeline in front of me. I am talking to the people about their journey and I'm filling in the events as I go.
My job as I do the interview is essentially a video game. Where I'm filling in the chain of events leading up to the moment of purchase and thereafter and how success is going.
So each of you as you do your next round of jobs to be done interviews and you will. That's what I'll be expecting you to fill out.
So before I move on to the forces. Are there any questions about this timeline?
Or comments.
Nelson.
Yeah. Do does this require? Having a product for sale in order to be able to. Understand some of these early trans
Great question, Nelson. And the answer is no. So if you don't have a product for sale.
Someone is probably trying to make progress outside of you, right? They're hiring something else. Go have that right.
So what I would do if I were you, this is very simple. So you and I should talk more directly about what this looks like in a nuanced way.
I would go find people who've hired alternative solutions than what you plan to offer. And understand what they're hiring those solutions for.
And would led them down this journey. I love doing competitive product interviews. I love talking to people who choose something else.
So for example, one thing I'm doing right now is I'm actually interviewing founders.
Who get into Y Combinator and Tech Stars. And choose one or the other to understand why.
That's how I'm applying the jobs to be done framework for my job. Because why would a founder choose?
Neil's Oakland or San Francisco program. Over Y Combinator, would they even?
And what would be the context and what value would I need to provide for that to be true. So that's an example for me of like a competing, you know, example.
Does that answer your question, Nelson? Okay, cool.
Hi, similar question, but slightly different. So we are working on sustainability and travel and obviously that's not really that doesn't fully exist and obviously there's a lot of travel and convents like Expedian booking where people can choose these alternatives.
But I'm curious if it if there's it makes sense to interview a customer that might already be adopting sustainable practices in their everyday life like interviewing someone who owns a Tesla or shops that Whole Foods or uses Ridwell.
Or something like in the sustainability space in terms of their consumer purchasing behavior. But not necessarily in the same industry.
Just to understand their thought process on these changes or the forces of progress.
Interesting. So what you're saying is fascinating because I jumped back here. Because I'm trying to understand what the examples you just provided, what the struggling moment is.
Cause what you're describing sounds like people who have characteristics of Maybe what might be appropriate for who you think you want to serve.
Right.
But who among them actually is experiencing a struggling moment that would lead them to want to make a purchase?
Right, so I guess like the most tangible example would be Redwell. So every every city has recycling services.
Yeah.
But people that want to recycle. The things that just aren't recyclable that end up in the trash.
Anyways. End up paying a premium to use a service called Good Well to be able to recycle their batteries and clam shells and whatever it might be.
And so their struggling moment maybe. Like is a similar thought process like man, I really want to recycle.
I still want to do really good. But at the end of the day, there's not really good options out there.
And so then they that. And their struggling moment, they end up. Paying a monthly subscription for Ridwell.
In the same way that like for people that are traveling. And want to travel more sustainably. Since it doesn't really exist yet.
Then finding that customer is somewhat difficult. I guess. So it's like pre product doesn't really exist.
So, okay. Alright.
Okay, okay.
Yeah, we can help you with this. Yeah, we can help you with this. Like it's a longer answer than probably what I should respond with right now, but like I have a lot of thoughts based on what you just said.
Okay. Alright.
And the short answer is that we have to go way more narrow than how you're talking. Yeah, that's my instinct right now is like we gotta zoom in real deep.
Okay, cool.
Cause you start small and when you start small and narrow. It's way easier to abstract than the other way around.
Hmm.
If you start abstract with these characteristics of Tesla or they shop or those kind of things. It's 2 amorphous for us to have.
Through insights about those early stage customers that you want to acquire.
Hmm, okay.
But we'll get there. We'll get there. I will definitely work with you hands on on that.
Great. Thanks.
So great question. Kevin.
Yeah, so one of the things that, my co-founder Madison and I, we've been struggling with in the jobs to be done is How do we make the determination?
On who to focus on. And I asked that because we're B to B to C. So who do we focus towards the business the restaurants or the consumers?
Yeah.
And so that's a very tricky thing that we've been struggling with. And if we should be applying it to both.
Yeah, so, in the squad in the car asked about this, I think a little earlier, in a different way.
But my question to you, Kevin, is, what are your needs? Like, are we, what are we trying to get done?
Are we trying to earn revenue are we trying to figure out like Like what don't we know that we're trying to know?
So it's sort of a 2 edge sword. So. We found that selling to the restaurants for us is pretty easy because our product kind of doesn't exist out there.
So it's been. It's risky.
It will, yeah.
That's risky. Because if it's if you're saying it's easy now and the product doesn't exist as soon as you start to get bigger other people are gonna go oh we like that too we'll take it
Right, exactly. So. So there's that portion of it. So right now at this moment in time, it's easy, but yes, it will, that will change.
I know, I know, trust me. You'll hear my story.
But. The, the other part is that The consumers on that side. So getting to the restaurants what I was saying is that right now is easy to do, but then the sales actually getting the consumers to actually buy the product.
We'll find that we could have, let's say, a hundred different restaurants, but then generating the actual consumer sales, that's a little more tricky.
And it's tricky because sometimes right now for what we have because it's very innovative, the mindset is not quite there yet.
We're slowly getting that line set out to the consumer to sort of adapt this, but it's not there yet.
Yeah.
Huh.
So it may be. A thing where, you know, I might have answered my own question, even though with the restaurants it's easy to get it at this stage to them.
Try to get it to the consumers and get them to right.
How do you keep him happy? Yeah. So, so, so a few things here. And I'll keep going, but you're asking, you all are asking, you all are asking fantastic questions.
So keep them coming. This is the best use of our time in my opinion. Because everyone here can learn from each other and your respective situations.
Ryan Singer another friend of mine who I will introduce more about him later when we enter product development content work.
He said this to me one day. He goes, who can teach us most about the problem?
Who can teach us the most about the problem? So the problem that we want to solve. And when I heard him say that, this is like over 10 years ago, I never forgot it because on one hand, my default answer to most people when it comes to who to choose between B 2 B+B to C or B to B to C.
Who's gonna pay me? Whoever's paying me. I'm trying to know them because that's where I got to start.
If they're not willing to pay, I can't make progress in any other way. So that's a very simple rule of thumb that I still believe in.
However, There is an alternative and that is If either the B or the C in your equation, Kevin.
Will mean more to you in the near term about what you end up building and how you execute your next phase.
For example, if your goal is to raise venture capital and you have a certain set of institutional VCs that have a certain expectation for the strategic direction of your business based on the limited conversations you've had with them.
And they set a Excalibur test for you like a goal. Like, okay, great. You guys in the tech stars if you hit these metrics or get this done or explore the space and can prove to us that there's a there, then we were interested in moving forward and investing.
Okay.
Will be your lead investor, write your 500 K check. That is a worthy cost to maybe divert from who pays me now to who will teach me the most about solving the bigger 1 billion dollar problem down the road.
Right? That's just one very simple example. There's a lot of more new wants strategic questions that you can ask.
I will spin up a job to be done interview for the smallest of things. Like if I want to test like certain a subset of a feature within a product or a new business concept.
I will do a whole job to be done process that takes one to 2 weeks to get done once you're good at it.
Just for that understanding in one domain without effect impacting the entire business. So that's where you can kinda pull in different.
Situations but the short answer of it, Kevin, is that it depends and I will work with you on a very direct custom answer, to your situation.
Snow.
Perfect.
I'm curious about, if it makes sense to conduct the interview with the people who is in the middle of the timeline.
So just who just decide to purchase the product?
Great question. What do you think? What do you think I'm gonna say?
So I'd like to have the interview to understand that, but actually there are some that I cannot ask.
So that's why I, so.
Huh. Alright, I'm gonna say something and you will have to forgive me. Please forgive my language.
But it's something that someone taught to me. Bitchinate switching. So that's what I heard.
Bob taught me this. But basically what that means is is that when someone's struggling with the problem, but they haven't taken action to change.
You're not going to learn nearly as much as the person who ends up switching. Right? So what you want to study is the actual purpose of someone saying yes or no to something.
Like a hard decision, like the switch moment is the key. That's where you're gonna find actually I'm gonna skip ahead of slide That's the energy.
This is actually a part of my lecture right here. So the energy comes at the moment of the switch.
People will complain all day long about what they don't like. But they still have to be the customer.
Sometimes that's good, sometimes it's bad. Right? It's bad in the context of Comcast?
Anybody a customer Comcast? That's bad. Cause I can't switch. I have to use Comcast and that sucks.
But sometimes No one's ever gonna be happy with what comes out, but at the same time, it's getting the job done for you or others.
So you're tolerating it even if you're going to kick and scream along the way. And maybe the kicking and screaming is more of the minority edge case, the super users.
And less about the masses who are very happy with the product as it is. So that's why Snow to answer your question.
Talking to people. Potential customers of yours but who have not made a decision to purchase. Will give you a false sense of confidence about what they would be willing to do.
So one example of this that happens in the real world is many of you have probably administered servants. You've probably run surveys to understand your audience and I'll have meetings with founders and they'll say, oh, I have a survey with a thousand results and that everyone says that they would be willing to pay.
$50 for this or they'd be willing to do this or they'd be willing to sign up if it had this.
Those people are lying to you. You have no idea what they're actually willing to do yet. Until you ask them to literally pay.
Those are hollow words. So I'll tell you this is someone who learned the hard way. I started the first coding school.
I'll tell you that whole story later. But in doing so, I was learning this technique called the lean startup methodology.
This is back in 2,009. So, you know, 15 years ago. And so in the lean start of methodology, talk about doing customer interviews.
And I did solution interviews and problem interviews. And when I did these interviews, I talked to people who I thought would be great customers for my coding school.
I met with 25 people. And the vast majority of them said they would be willing to pay. $6,000.
To sign up for my coding program.
I launched my coding program.
0 of those people signed up for that program or anything else. 0. Even though they all told me that they would.
So I, but I ended up succeeding and there's a whole story there, but I just want you to understand like what people say they're willing to do and what they actually do are 2 different things.
So one thing that I always have people do when they claim that someone is willing to do something. It's a good lesson to do it.
So you interview someone and they say, I'm willing to pay, I'd be willing to pay $30 for this.
Okay, it's ready actually. So here's it. You have your credit card ready. I'll take you $30 right now.
And then you'll find out the truth. So I love that you ask that snow is perfect. Okay, I'm gonna place through the rest.
So. Forces. We talked about timeline, time, space and time, understanding, customers journey. What are the forces that are pushing them?
Through that timeline or slowing them down from making it through to the purchase moment. So space and time is what we're talking about.
And right here, these forces are going to be the key to your understanding. Once you've conducted your interview.
So we've kind of trained you all a little bit to do this already, but just so you know, what happens is when you're dealing with a push, this is the most common one.
Someone has a problem that they need to solve. The example and analogy I like to use is I have a flat tire.
When you have a flat tire and you're trying to get somewhere, You need to fix the flat tire.
That's a problem. That's a push. That's a necessity to make progress on.
Can anyone think of what a poll would be as opposed to a push? So if it pushes a flat tire What might a pool be with our car analogy?
Trying to get to your, daughter's,
Okay.
That's a push too. You gotta be at the recital bro. I don't want you thinking about that being a good thing for you to do.
That's a push.
Right.
So what would a pull be?
You are okay with the price.
What's that?
Maybe that the
You are okay with the IS for now and you don't change it now.
You're okay with the tires, sure. So what else might be going on with the car?
What kind of other pool might there exist with with a car?
Better performance.
Yeah.
There we go. I like that better perform. What is better performance mean on a on roads with speed limits and and legality and restrictions.
What kind of performance are we talking about part of?
There could be safety measures. You know, on the riskier rows or depending on the sort of terrain that they're planning on traveling through.
Heck yeah, absolutely, 100%. So I'll give you an example. And this is it'll get dark for a second, but then it'll be okay.
Last year during one of my programs, right at the beginning, going into Minter Madness, I was in a really bad car accident.
I was in an Uber in the back seat. And I got t-bone and I was it was not good.
It was not pretty. I had to pick glass out of my head and bleed down to go to hospital back. Anyway, I'm okay. Made it through it.
Team supported me. We got it done. That being said, literally like a week or 2 later.
I made the mistake of taking another Uber. I think I was on a meeting with Liliana and another team member.
And I was in a Tesla. And the Uber driver almost crashed. Into another car a week after me getting a concussion and like I haven't go to hospital.
But the technology auto-stopped the car. It like before he crashed the car like 4 stopped.
And I was like, I am taking Ubers and Teslas for ever now. I'm not riding in any other car.
Because I didn't trust the person driving. But the technology enabled more like safety and assurance for me.
So I say all that to say, my pull example for y'all. I didn't even know I was gonna use that story, but here we are free styling.
The pull is I don't need a new car. But that new Tesla, mmm, I'm trying to get that cyber truck. You know what I'm saying?
Like, so there's a pull, there's like a desire to have a better status or a better version of yourself or a better lifestyle that you want where you're not burdened by this struggling moment.
But you are excited about that future you. Or a better way of living that can enhance things. Williana.
No, yeah, so I heard a couple of you when you were guessing polls, you were saying things that maybe put you away from the solution so the direction of the arrows here is really important.
So you can't see. I wish we had a whiteboard so you could see but basically the push is pushing you toward the new behavior and the pole is pushing you toward the new behavior.
It's just one is stronger than the other. The poll is much more about an attraction. Or an allure.
So like Neil was saying the enticing nature of the safety of the Tesla. I always use Tesla as an example for the social ramifications.
So a lot of people at the beginning got Tesla not for any of its features but because it was seen as elite luxurious.
You have made it if you can buy a Tesla in the tech world, things like that. You have no main issue with your current car.
Maybe nothing is even wrong with it. You just want the Tesla for a much higher reason, much more about attraction.
The push is there's an actual problem that is hurting. So I always associate push with pain.
It says make it better. Something is truly hurting or inhibiting you. That's the difference, but they're both moving you toward the new solution.
And although on the regular pushes stronger than pull, sometimes pull can be extremely strong. A good example is a new iPhone.
A lot of us get new iPhones without the old one being broken or made obsolete and it's a lot more about the poll than it is the push and I mean they've made a huge business on that.
So it's not always a push stronger. The main thing I want you to understand is that they're both moving you toward the new solution and the other 2 forces are moving you away from the new solution, sticking to status quo.
That's very well said and it reminds me, Liliana, I would love for you to chime in more.
Just so you all know, the way Lilian and I have become very close as colleagues is. Through this through exactly what we're talking about right now this is the first time she and I met is when I gave a version of this talk.
And it was clear that it resonated with her and this was like 5 years ago and we've been applying this framework to help founder succeed ever since.
Brian.
Yeah, I like that.
Yes, that's a great way to say it. You're aspiring for a better self.
So I'm just trying to make sure that I got what, both you and, Lilian are saying is that especially on the pool side is it safe to say that there are operational in nature.
I like that.
So think about when you sign up for like a gym membership. Or. You know, I'm thinking about.
You know, anything where there's like a dream of being enhanced or life being better and it's not necessarily coming from.
A major problem in your life, but just more of like a major upgrade that you're thinking of.
Those upgrades, that's the pull force. And there's usually a combination of them that are at play.
Tune day you had a question, but I don't know if you wanted to.
Yeah, I kinda changed my mind. The question. But I guess I can ask it and I've read a lot of books around like entrepreneurship and I'm trying to not to conflate a lot of the concepts and I'm trying not to conflate a lot of the concepts and so with this push and pull analogy what was coming to mind was when you speak about painkillers and
Yeah, a morphine.
Yeah.
A little. Yeah, yeah, you're good. This is good This is the deep work. This is the deep work.
vitamins and I Okay, so yeah, I just wanted to know if it was kind of in the same in this we could use the same I guess thought process to try to understand push and pull and And that's what I, that's that's why I put my hand out because I thought I didn't want to I do wanna, yeah, yeah.
I like this. You're doing it. So to be clear, I will say that I will talk about.
Bye, vitamins, painkillers, and morphine, right, as levels of severity of the problem.
Yep.
It's tangentially related to what we're talking about, but not precisely. So a vitamin is a thing that you're taking proactively to be better.
A painkiller is something because you're reacting to an immediate pain. I have back pain I need to go to CBS and get some you know aspirin or something.
Morphine is deep seated pain and need for relief. Each of you and your businesses today have respective pain levels of severity that you're addressing for your customer.
The tried and true like kind of reference there for that analogy to day. Is by default. Ideally, you're trying to deal with the morphine level problem.
Because by solving a morphine level problem. People are willing to go to much greater lengths to make progress.
That isn't always true or always the case, but in many cases, most cases I would say.
Trying to focus on the higher severity and the greater needs, even if it's a smaller subgroup of potential customers, is a great starting place for most founders.
That isn't necessarily tracking directly to the push and pull analogy you're seeing here. The pull forces that we're talking about.
To very well be at the vitamin or painkiller stage along with the pushes. So there's a slight nuance to those 2 concepts that I would kind of create a separation for.
Thanks.
I can think of an example, Neil. Like for, B 2 B, let's talk about a specific decision maker stakeholder, maybe a chief innovation officer for many of you.
Selling tech solutions. The push would be so that decision maker messed up and it like it's threatened that they may lose their jobs so they want your solution to make their job better and so they don't mess up again and keep their job.
A poll that is equally as strong would be they want to move up maybe their VP of innovation right now they want to be Chief Innovation Officer.
That poll can still be a painkiller or morphine depending on how deep the desire is.
So their poll and allure to be better to achieve that promotion to be the champion of their team to bring in this new solution that streamlines their revenue and innovates the company.
If they want that pull and the reason it's attractive is because they want to buy a new house for their family or something like that.
There's still not a push there. But the poll I would say is at that painkiller or even morphine level, but it's still an allure or an attraction because they're not facing an immediate like pain in their job.
I think that's a good way to think about it.
Yep. Now.
And this is great. I'm loving the back and forth. It's really good. I'm a I'm a qualitative researcher by trainings.
I'm love and breaking it down. My only question is, is there a need at this stage to quantify these trajectories, right?
Hmm
Yep.
Is there need to have a sense of, yeah, that relationship? I know you're breaking it down, Just curious, we need to have numbers behind some of these, relative to that morphine scenario.
What when you think of numbers, what are you thinking of? What numbers are you?
Oh.
I'm more simply thinking even like a lighter scale, right? Like, are we, should be, should that be a part of the process of being able to help people understand the choices they have is right.
There's plenty competitors, plenty of other options. I give a little bit of contact. We're in the fintech space.
So our kind of pushing pull is probably always a saving versus investing kind of binary, right? And so for us, I'm just thinking, given other solutions, other investment options, how do we start to?
I'm gonna quantify some of that sensitivity.
That's a great question. We can help you with that once we get to the research insights.
Math gets involved. Math gets involved at the later stages of having these insights and how you process them and what the clusters look like.
So for sure it does get quantitative. It starts off highly qualitative. Bob is still in the process of teaching me a lot of those quantitative techniques for how to actually like parse these insights further from a research standpoint, now.
But yeah, for those of you that are trying to go full board with this, there will be room for more of that.
For sure. So I love that you asked.
Awesome. Appreciate it.
Okay, would it be okay if I offer some of my insights? I'm doing my master's in market research, so it's all about call and quant and just like kind of breaking it down like When typically performing any kind of like consultative aid for a business, what you first do is the qualitative part because it helps you narrow down that scope of who and what to ask and the quantitative.
Because when you get all those like hard data numbers, you want them to be as focused as possible and qualitative is a great way of getting it there.
So I almost feel as like a funnel where like I still do like Qual and Quant, but I always, not always, but typically do call first so then narrow it down to like what I want to ask about in Quant.
I love that.
Love it. Yeah, I'm, I'm on the same page with both of you. I will offer a caveat though.
We cannot research our way to product market fit.
You still have to execute. You still have to screw up. It's messy. It's unproven.
That's the very nature of startups. You all are here not because there's a formula that I can give you to be successful.
You're here because there's a very painful chaotic road to realize what kind of business. You need to build in order to execute successfully.
So just know that we'll research our way through this and we'll have insights and hints.
But at the end of the day, what to expect from this isn't an answer. It's a series of potential pathways to go down.
To find the answer that you want. Matthew.
Yeah, my question was, can we try to be both push and poor? And, similar on the fintech space thinking, you know, the push could be saving money and the pool is making more money.
Can we try to be both or should we?
I appreciate you asking and it's interesting. I'm going to offer up a reframe for you.
Because the context of this slide has nothing to do with us. And has everything to do with the person you're trying to help.
So we're not even talking about we yet. We don't know what we want to be.
We want to help them. So if we understand what's driving them to make progress and success, we can orient ourselves to address the forces that are motivating them to make progress.
Got it.
Has nothing to do with us yet. I hope I'm not being too forward by saying it that way, but that is the point.
Is that it ain't about us yet.
Yeah.
It's really important. Yeah, it's not what we're offering. So like just changing that language to be.
I can.
Yep. Yeah. With so our assuming this is the person you want to help Matthew like once you tell me I know I want to help them Then we start with humility and we go, okay, what do we need to become to actually help them make their progress?
Not the other way around.
Got it.
Now if your question is like, can someone be hiring us for both push and pull? The answer is yes.
Yes.
People will have a diversity of reasons that they come. To. Higher your product. I can do the last 2 now if you want.
Oh, this is good. Yeah, please do it. Yeah, let's go.
Gotcha.
Okay, so now let's change gears for the last 2 forces if you could go back Now let's change gears to what is keeping the customer at the current status quo.
So business as usual on the left side. The last 2 are forces that are against progress against them making that switch.
We'll do habit first. That's traditionally the hardest one to understand out of the 4.
But just think of it as the actual title, a habit. It's keeping someone in their current status quo.
We are not creatures of change. Humans just like to stay with what they know. It's about comfort.
It's about just accessibility. The greatest example that Neil and I always give is changing your operating system.
So you're either usually a Windows person or a Mac person. Sometimes you change when you're like super young and in school, but you're pretty much set in your professional career.
And if you do change, one of the things that is keeping you from making that change is the habit.
So Apple in order to convert Windows users have they have to overcome their habit force. People are very used to the certain shortcuts they have, the certain way that things show up in their operating system.
And you now have to make enough of an allure or a push on the top to overcome that negative force in people.
Does that make sense on habit? Does anyone have any questions? Okay. And then anxiety.
Nailed it.
Much easier to understand. Anxiety is feared. So one of the main reasons we don't want to make changes outside of comfort level and having to change is fear.
That can be mainly price. But I can think of a couple of others. Price is the biggest one that we see.
So. People have a problem, but the price barrier is enough to overcome even the pain of a push or the allure of a poll.
How do I know if this will work? Right? I've been I've been failed so many times.
I've tried so many other solutions. Is this the one? I'm already I'm already kind of like nervous about that.
I'm unsure. So that anxious energy that people carry that offers them a hesitation. So like whenever a deal slows down.
So some of you are doing B to B work. Right? And you're trying to get a deal over the line.
You've got an LOI, you know, you're talking terms, but you can't quite get the commitment.
There's likely going to be certain uncertainties or anxieties that the customer has on the other side that they're trying to navigate or deal with before they're ready to commit.
So there's so many different contexts where these forces come into play. The push in the poor are much easier to discern and ascertain from the interview than the habits and anxieties, all are important.
And they all feed into each other.
Okay. Yeah, so now a great exercise is in my email to you guys I asked you to review the mattress interview That is a key exercise to be able to understand this framework.
So I don't know if we have time now, now if you want to just Go through the forces on that or we can do it next time, but.
Definitely. Definitely review it if you have it.
Yeah, we will probably let's do that at the start of the next session we do because then we'll give people time to think about it or revisit the interview if they didn't get a chance to re listen to it.
But energy. At the end of the day is what we're looking for. Where there's high energy there is greater insight.
So the last part of this equation and then we'll wrap up soon. There's dimensions of understanding these forces.
They're social, functional, and emotional. So social is your interaction with others and how they see you.
Functional is does it actually get the job done? Is it actually accomplishing what it sets out to? And emotional is how it makes you feel.
So each of these layers. To your energy. With respect to those forces. Are worth unpacking and understanding for each of your respective customers.
Because once you dial in what the implications are, different products have different levels of severity for each of these dimensions.
Some are pure function. Some could be pure motion. Most, if not all, have some variance of each of them.
But keeping these. Dimensions of energy in mind. As you do your interviews and understand your customers better are going to allow you to have a level of creative thoughtful nuance to your product offering that most of your competitors do not have.
So whenever you realize that someone like some product that you paid, something you paid money for, it's almost like they effortlessly understood what your needs were and you were delighted at the experience because of how thoughtful and successful it was.
It didn't even make you think because it was so easy. Like those are the kinds of experiences I like to sign up for.
So, I'm trying to give a good example of a delightful customer experience, but not to be too much of a fanboy, but if you ever walk into an Apple store.
Versus like a micro center. Or circuit city or There's a difference in how it feels. And who greets you, how you interact.
And just how it feels to be in that room in that space. Makes you want to buy on its own.
So with that being said, like that's the level of understanding that you need to have about what those forces of progress on.
All right, few final things. One. Demand side versus supply side. You're gonna hear me say this a lot because most of you will make this mistake at some point as we talk and have our one on ones and conversations.
The supply side thinking will be a total distraction to our early progress in this program. And what I mean by supply side thinking is I'm not ragging on you, Matthew, but what Matthew said about we need to do this or we become that or what we will offer.
It ain't about you yet. So I'm gonna remove solutions and supply side from our conversations early on because until we understand who it is we're helping and what they need.
It makes no sense for us to talk about ourselves and what we offer. Unless you already have customers. If you have customers, then there's already a symbiotic relationship between demand and supply, and we're just looking to figure out how to enhance it.
So different situations. You know, different companies. But there's usually a bifurcation of these business units at companies.
At scale. You separate. You know the the customer support from the marketing and sales. So the best example and analogy I have of this is if anyone has ever bought like a high end camera.
Thank you, you ever purchased like a canon or a Nikon or something like that? Maybe some of the older folks in the room can relate more, but when you buy one of these products.
There's a there's like usually a brochure and there's branding and packaging that go with it that are aesthetically beautiful.
It's like really auring. You're like so excited to have this new device. But what happens when you open the box?
You get that manual and it's. This thick and all of a sudden you have all of these little bitty fine print and text to learn and specs and instructions and tools and all these things that become super overwhelming.
It's a case study in. Setting you up to buy and then dropping you off the deep end afterwards once you're my customer.
You've already made the purchase. You're not going to go back. You're not going to return it. I have you.
Therefore, I'll just. I'll just vomit instructions about how to handle this complicated product.
Rather than continuing the thoughtfulness. In that journey. So I think the best companies among us are the ones that keep the experience going, even post purchase.
We're guiding the customer down a pathway to delight and success. Alright. Speaking of business units and scaling.
Those of you that wanna still build those 1 billion dollar businesses, I hope is everybody on this call. I hope you realize that everything we talked about with that timeline.
Tracks to your companies at scale. So when you have a hundred employees. And you're managing. You know, all of these different tools and you're earning millions in revenue.
That customer journey is still true.
And the company systems that you have. Map to the timeline that we're trying to teach you at the basic level here.
Your marketing and sales systems in Teams will be understanding. Both the first thought, the passive and active looking phases of all the customers you're trying to appeal to.
Who are those billboards in San Francisco speaking to as you drive around? When you think about the large scale marketing and branding that happened, the ads, the commercials, the Super Bowl just passed and those were a bunch of commercials.
When you ask yourself, what are the teams of people doing the work to figure out what the message should say?
How this should be rendered, how it should be visualized, how it should be offered. And then last but not least, customer success.
So just know that what we're teaching you might seem fairly accessible and even borderline rudimentary.
But at scale it becomes just as important and just as nuanced. So we're just trying to prime you all for that.
So I've alluded to having connections to the people who've taught us this framework and how we go about applying it.
One really, really special moment for me was when I had a chance to go to Harvard. Business School to meet, Clay Christianson himself along with Bob Messa who did the mattress interview.
He and Clay. Together kind of co-created the jobs to be done framework in the nineties.
So I have one last story to share with you about the origin of that, but beforehand, Clay, if you notice in the video is very tall.
I think he's like 6 8. He sadly a few years ago passed away. But he and I had a chance to meet, before that.
And he has this. Humility exercise that he does with people. Sometimes when he takes photos where he gets down on one knee and this is a mean play at Harvard spending that time together having a conversation about how to apply jobs to be done in a political context.
I'll share more about later in my story. When we're in Tahoe. But this is the guy who's been doing the Manchester interview.
For you. This is Bob Nesta. Bob is one of my best friends. I met Bob I think 11 years ago at 37 signals slash base camp in Chicago at their office.
He was teaching jobs to be done. To a group of people who had paid I think a thousand dollars to have a seat.
To spend the day with him. There people have to spend a lot more money now than they did back then to meet with Bob.
But I want to tell you a quick story about him and how he came to meet Clay because Clay brings the academic side and Bob brings the like the real practice.
So, but before I do that, I want you all to tell me
What these are. These are 2 candy bars. We know that. But what candy bars are they?
Sneakers.
Which one?
The bottom one, I think sneakers.
Top is Milky Way.
Yeah, some marn knows his skinny bar. Alright, what's the one on the top?
Thanks.
No.
I'm gonna say Milky Way.
Mars?
Okay.
Yeah
Oh, who said that? Was that Valeria? Malaria, you like Milky Way's?
Yeah, and I think some other people too. I don't, but I don't know.
Yeah.
I've got an eye for such things, I guess.
Alright, cool. Very nice. Okay, so here's the situation. Bob is a very smart person.
Okay, so he went to Michigan State. He went to Harvard. He's an engineer. He's from Detroit.
So he does a lot of work with like He's worked with over 3,000 products in his lifetime.
That being said, early on. He was doing, I think, both automobile industry and maybe some defense contracting work.
But a friend of his worked for Mars. Mars is the company that makes Milky Way and stickers and they're based in New Jersey.
So he flashed from Detroit to New Jersey and his friend basically says, hey Bob, we need your help.
We're trying to figure out because this is in the ninetys, so you all might be surprised, but.
Hmm.
Mars was struggling. And Snickers was on the chopping block. Because they were competing with Milky Way and they were trying to make sense of these 2 products that they were offering and how they were sizing up with each other.
So. This is the state of the company. I hope that this works with the screen share.
Lilian, if this doesn't, you let me know, okay? I'm gonna try to play the state of the company.
With what they were where the business was at Let's see if this works.
No, it's just a frozen frame.
Is this working? No? Oh man, alright, let me see if I can fix this.
Let me see if I can fix this.
No.
What about now? No? Oh man, it's a commercial. So let me see.
If you send me the link, I can pull it up. Oh, it's working now. It's working.
I hope you enjoy that snickers.
We can see it.
Okay.
Well, no, it's a it's actually Okay, there we go. There you go.
Happy peanuts all Over chocolate covered mountain tops and waterfalls of Branching new good in the meadow sings a song of satisfaction to the world
That's right.
Alright, so what did we just see? Tell me what you all just saw. Like who were we selling to?
Who is this for? What's the message?
We're on the advertising and marketing team. Dropping millions of dollars on a commercial ad campaign.
Any thoughts?
I mean from quickly, it's first time seeing you. But obviously he's working in our office, right?
Yeah.
Looks like it's a pretty boring. He's the only one in there. Just looking at some of the contact.
So I feel like it's something about. Interrupting his day, the song, all that, right?
It's adding injecting a bit of spontaneity, livelihood into that, environment.
That's a that's a impressive read. Yeah, I you're saying it better than I ever could.
I don't know. Maybe. Yeah. I like who do you think the customer is?
I think he
Like what situation are they in?
It's the mundane TDM of office work, right? So it could be anybody, right?
Okay. Got it. So just like make things more interesting, right? With the stickers.
Anybody working at 7? Yeah. Yeah.
So Mark, did you want to say something?
No, just gonna say it looks like he's, you know, in the middle of working. I just wanna snack like a quick, bite.
Okay, a quick bite. Alright, yeah.
Yeah.
And escape. Alright, alright.
Maybe she feels like an escape. Which was
Yeah, I was gonna say the same thing. I mean, you're in office setting, probably in the stressful environment, that's probably his way of like.
You know, coping with that at the moment. Like I need to stress that. So.
Yeah. Kevin.
Gives you energy. You're in that office 2, 3 pm in the afternoon, you get that afternoon lag.
Snickers and peanuts it gives you the boost.
And you got that from this ad?
Okay.
I did actually, cause he just, it's an office setting. So it just looks boring. Like and you take that that snickers bar and it just kind of That's my interpretation, but.
I love this. No, I love this. Cause you know, it's funny because I I have an inkling.
Of what that might be informed by but I'll get to that in a second. Christy.
I don't know if I just imagine this, but I, saw him. Experience joy once he kind of like When you heard, you know, the, the guy singing, he kinda.
Yeah, he was like not his head and swimming around
Huh.
Yeah.
Ging more appreciation for it. There was this join, you know, Joyce moment. Again, against the boring, you know, tedious day he was happening and then he became kind of aspirational like.
Huh.
Something I don't like it felt like I was I saw him kind of dreaming of something beyond his current state.
Well, so here's a funny thing with this. This ad didn't work.
They experience no material change. No success, no real uptick. They continue to struggle. And they were just kind of throwing things at the wall trying trying to do, I think what you all are trying to do, trying to make sense of what you saw and you're kind of elaborating a little bit more.
And I think some of that elaboration is informed maybe from some other inputs and you're familiar with snickers now.
That being said, here Bob was with the puzzle. Still struggling. So he leaves New Jersey and goes back.
To Detroit and he goes to the airport. And he still got this puzzle on his mind.
Like, wait, at Milky Way Snickers. Bad ads, not growing sales. What do we do?
At the airport. Past security. He sees a keyiosk. And lo and behold, he stands by the kiosk.
And he observes a person buying a snickers. Bob as a kid was given what's called the 3 foot rule by his mom.
Which means that if he's within 3 feet of someone, he can talk to them. A strange rule I know, but Bob proceeds to follow this Snickers purchaser.
To their security gate. And sit near them and first he observes. And he watches this person, open up their laptop.
Sit down. Scarf down the snickers and start to work. He asks this person.
In language that they could understand. What job were you hiring the snickers to do? The guy says, well, I've got this long flight.
I would love to get some shut eye so if I can get through my work right now. Empowered through it.
I think Kevin or someone said that. Then I'll be able to take a nap on the plane and I get my work done now.
Okay, that's cool. What do you think Bob did next?
What would you do?
One.
Sorry to ask you questions.
He went back to the kiosk. And he kept waiting. He started waiting. He was like, okay, what do you think he's waiting for?
Somebody else to buy the snickers.
Or a Milky Way. Right? So he sits there and he waits. Someone else buys the snickers.
And then he goes up to the guy working the kiosk and he's like, hey, like You sell these Milky Way's?
Much. And he's like, no, we sell way more sneakers. Interesting. So Bob is now trying to figure out where people are buying stickers versus where people are buying Milky Way's.
So he goes home and the puzzle still on his mind because he hasn't quite figured it out.
And he's talking to his wife. And he's like, I got this puzzle. This New Jersey Mars company like snickers Milky Way thing.
Who's the hex by Milky Way? And his wife says, I have a Milky Way.
She walks into the kitchen, grabs a stool, stands on it, reaches behind like a cabinet of the fridge and pulls out a bowl.
Or she pulls out her Milky Way.
Light bulb comes on. Bob goes back to look at the data. It turns out that the hiring criteria for the Milky Way is dramatically different than the hiring criteria for the Snickers.
And when they actually did the market research after that. Lip. They realize that the competitive set for the Milky Way was couldn't be more different than the people who were buying the Snickers bars.
The people buying the Milky Way? Consumed it from anywhere from 10 to 15 min. The consumption time for a snickers bar is 60 to 90 s.
So to help you understand the contrast, Milky Way was more about A glass of red wine at the end of your day, or an evening run, or brownie, or ice cream.
Which is why they would put him in the freezer. Whereas on the snicker side, there was a functional piece of energy, a boost, Red Bull, apples, coffee, fast food.
Functional needs. Was more about the hiring criteria for the Snickers.
That came from that moment when he came home and he saw his wife with that Milky Way and he decided to look at the data.
To realise that at least at the time, and this is clearly changed over time, but at the time, far more women were purchasing Milky Way than men.
It was fascinating to look at the data and to see that. So. That all being said, I don't, we don't give Bob all the credit.
The company was smart and adept and did a lot of cool things. But I'll show you where things landed, which may come from a lot of the inferences you made from that first commercial.
What?
Go! Oh, Mike, what's your deal, man? Come on, man. You've been riding me all day.
You're playing like Betty White out there. Ask out what your girlfriend says. You snickers.
Better? Hi! That hurt. You're not you when you're hungry.
Snickers satisfies.
Hello. You all remember this? So some of you do. So what ended up happening.
Is this you're not you and your hungry campaign? Emerged. From these insights. And snickers went on to become the number one candy bar in the world.
So what ended up happening is when you touch on the note of what the job is rather than just saying sneaker satisfies and I'm bored at work and this is good, but instead you put people in the actual situation where they would be struggling and they can relate to and it strikes a chord.
That's the level of clarity that we're trying to get each of you all to during this program with respect to who you're offering your product to and how to present it to them.
So, what does a candy bar have to do with your businesses? I know we're building tech startups.
We're not building, you know, a candy bar business. There's a lot that comes with it, but very simply the language and processes in the domino effect.
That lead to the chain of events that undeniably caused the problem. That's what we're here to help you all figure out.
So I share that snicker story and the Clay McDonald's story because Snickers, McDonald's, Jobs to be Done.
Major corporations is where this framework came from. The reason we extrapolated this framework to apply to startups.
Is because the goal for many of you is to get to the point where you are serving millions of customers all over the world.
And I want to give you all the context and the insights that exist at that level. Prominence and bring it to the earlier phase of how you build your companies.
So, few other tips and I will wrap up with a few questions. Big hires and little hires.
Big higher language is when someone's committing or deciding to sign up for your product or service, little higher all the little things that they consume before along the way.
The best use case example I have for this is duct tape. You hire duct tape for one job.
You need tape for a reason and you use it You keep the duct tape in your pantry or in your closet or somewhere in your house.
And whenever you need take, you pull out for another job. That's a little higher. As far as my reasoning for using jobs to be done.
It helps me distribute decision making better with my team. Because we're in alignment with the job and we're always asking ourselves, are we in alignment with the job?
We optimize resources to focus on what matters most for the customer for success. It's inspiring to know that you're actually getting the right job done for your customers.
And it allows you to more objectively. Track APIs and know that you're assessing yourself over what you've determined to be most important to your customers.
So here's the process.
Frame the learning question and when I say frame the learning question, this is where everyone makes a mistake They think I mean what questions are you gonna ask in an interview?
You shouldn't know what questions you're going to ask in the interview. There's no script.
I'll give you a few tips on ways to start the conversation, but there should be no script.
The learning question is about what you want to learn from doing the interviews. That's the learning question.
You screen recruits, that's your screening criteria exercise. You conduct your interviews, you do your debriefs where you track the forces and timeline.
Then you do an analysis of pattern. This is where. We come in to help. This is where most people struggle, who study jobs to be done through Google or, you know, by YouTube or through some online class or something, they don't do that part or do it well.
And we have done this for years. So we will help you analyze patterns from the insights you gained from your interviews to actually extract what you would need to know.
To move forward for product development and for sales and marketing. You detail the jobs to be done statements and then you understand what to build and what to change about your business next.
That's our process that we will guide you through in the coming weeks. The reason we do it now and not later and the reason we don't make it optional.
Is because by the time you get to We have very clearly learned that if you don't have this figured out.
You are going to get eaten alive. Because you're gonna waste so much time trying to explain to people what you think your business is about and who your customers are without actually understanding.
So we're trying to set you up for success with investors. We're going to introduce you to and with lots of experts.
And people that you might even hire. Who are gonna evaluate how well you actually know your business and what you're trying to get done with it.
Cool. I think that's a good time to end. I have more to cover, but I have more time later.
Case studies, examples, references, more to share about all that. But Lilyon, anything else before we, conclude?
Nope, just that is gonna be an immersive. So we have back to back and we'll also jump into some more stuff.
For DTPD next week. So I know we threw a lot at you right now, but just know we're kind of gonna be able to answer questions as we go.
And you'll just get a lot more info each day. So just let it marinate tonight and review the mattress interviews.
We can go over that tomorrow. I see a question.
And it's a lot to process to be clear and it won't make sense until you apply it again.
So that's why we have multiple revs on this. We had you do it during the application process.
We're having you do it right now and There are founders who are years out of my programs who I still will do jobs to be done analysis with.
To this day. So I'll let you know that it never gets old because as you acquire more customers, you'll want to have a better understanding of who the new customers are.
Tuesday.
It was just a quick question on the process. The first step is, frame the learning questions.
And I just asked, is there a reason why you didn't? Bring it as frame the learning outcomes because that kind of seems what you explained it would be.
Is that a bit of a head fake to let people think about the questions not from your perspective?
Let you think about it from question as well, not your perspective but from perspective of the customer. Is that intentional yet?
Yeah, so there's there's a I wanna get the right quote so Lilian maybe you can help me Clay has a famous quote questions create spaces in the brain for answers to fall into It's all about questions first.
So what questions are we trying to answer with this research that we're doing? That's all.
I think your framing of the outcome is equally valid. I would say that there are 2 sides of the same coin.
Thank you.
Any other questions or final comments? Yeah, no time.
Yeah, thanks. Thanks, Neil. Just, a question about the scale of, so conducting interviews, I became very aware of the fact that I was doing 1, 2, 3, 4, but maybe if it did 1020, 30, 40.
The answer is in the path of taken would have been different. So I'm wondering from your experience what sort of scale you think in terms of sample will show to be effective.
10?
10 interviews. 10. Yeah, if you do 10 with the right screen, you right here in the right context, you'll and you do them right in their quality interviews.
10 to 15 interviews is Pretty much and I've been I've been doing this for 10 years.
Bob's been doing this for much longer than that. You can get meaningful insights from. That number if you do it right.
Awesome.
So that's also why I like it for a startup context. Because it's efficient. We're not over researching the problem before we know what we need to know to run an experiment.
We get insights, we make experiments and decisions and we iterate from there. So I'll give you an example of a more prominent company and I'll share more about them tomorrow when I do my next lecture on this.
But base camp, I did jobs to be done. Interviews with 37 singles in base camp. They were already serving millions of users and customers.
After 15 interviews. The insights we got led to deep strategic. Decisions about the company and the product and the pricing.
That had a fundamental impact on it going full. So I've seen it happen. And in the big leaks and it works.
Cool, thank you.
So. I'll show you more. Yeah. Alright, let's get this once and for all.
I wanna say your name properly. Mercia.
Bam! Let's go.
Yeah, amazing. And I will not hold it against you if you do not. I don't expect anybody to know a Romanian.
This whole class is going to say your name properly by the end of the program, I promise you.
Just imagine an age instead of the E. I'll wear I'll make a t-shirt that says H instead of E or something.
Meera. Yeah, I got you.
Anyway, I have a I have a very short question we can answer next time if it's too long to answer.
Yep.
There is a difference between our current customers and who we believe is our ideal customer in the future and our deal customer happens to be those performing musicians that are more successful than the ones that we work with right now.
Yes.
And they have a bit of a wall up because of their celebrity status. It's really difficult to interview.
So I'm worried about the discrepancy of interviewing the current customers to be done which are not maybe ideal and I can't really reach the ideal ones at this stage in time.
Alright, I would love to help you with that. I don't have an answer right now on the cusp, but I love that you spoke up about that because Each of us have the ideal customer that we'd love to reach or talk to that we can't quite get to.
Yours is a more extreme version of that. Sounds like a worthy opponent. I'm down.
Amazing.
So I love ending on time. I will stick around, happy to do encore and answer more questions, but I want to make sure that each of you all have meetings and things and priorities to tend to go live your life.
Be well be happy live long and prosper. I'll see you tomorrow or Thursday or next week.
Bye